---
layout: post
title: Introduction
categories:
- blog
tags:
- social
---

# Emerging
Welcome to the first post! If you keep reading them, I’ll keep writing them...

## For Starters
For the last couple years, I have been working as an independent software consultant. Consulting is my thing. I love it. I love the different clients, the variety of challenges, even the various constraints. Making happy clients is like winning the Super Bowl for me. Even so, it’s a lonely role. Sure, I work with other developers on occasion but it’s not a real _team_ thing. I miss that. I “grew up” in teams. Every step of my career has been a collective one. Win or lose, it has always been _together_. I have the best family in the world, so perhaps that is why I can continue as a lone wolf on the career front. But there is _no_ denying that I miss the professional “life on life” relationships.

## Life Hack
So it's time for an adjustment or two. Everybody knows that good relationships are intentional. That’s why I’m here. I’m setting foot into the world’s largest meetup and introducing myself. For now, it’ll be blog and code. Blog and code. I’m not a huge fan of social media exploits, but I’m open to any channels that may open up.

## The Together Project
Historically, I have always been an open source advocate. Even in the bowels of the most closed DOD contractors, I made the case. OSS brings out great things in humanity. The simplicity of a global altruistic team is inspiring. When it comes to OSS, most folks know how to _take_.  Not many know how to _give_. As an advocate over the years, I have wondered if I’m all talk. I have been so good at _taking_. Now that the opportunity has presented itself (in the form of a bit more resources, fewer NDAs, and “under the radar” projects), we shall _see_. I invite you to hold me accountable.

So let's see where this leads. I admire you folks who have been doing real business on the public stage. For me, it’s a new frontier.
